
                         _BERNAT Handicrafter_


                                 STOLES
                                BOOK 161
                              _PRICE 25c_

                             _Book No. 161_




                         _BERNAT Handicrafter_


  JULIA BROWNELL TRAPHAGEN, editor
  CARLEEN GOLDSMITH, associate editor




                       HINTS FOR BETTER KNITTING


STITCH GAUGE: The term “STITCH GAUGE” is the most important part of all
knitting directions, since the sizing of any knitted garment is planned
on this gauge. You MUST work to the gauge which is given or your
finished work will not be the size indicated in the directions.

TO CHECK STITCH GAUGE: Cast on approximately 20 sts, using the yarn and
needles which will be used for the body of your work. Work in the
pattern st specified for 3 inches. Bind off all sts. Block this knitted
swatch and then, using a ruler as a guide, count the number of sts to 1
inch. If your stitch gauge is MORE sts to 1 inch than that given in the
directions, try the next size larger needle and again check your gauge.
If your st gauge is LESS sts to 1 inch than that given in the
directions, try the next size smaller needle and again check your gauge.
The IMPORTANT THING to remember is that the size needle used does not
matter as long as your stitch gauge is correct.

GARTER STITCH: Knit every row. It will take 2 rows to make 1 ridge.

STOCKINETTE STITCH: K 1 row, P 1 row alternately when working on
straight needles. When working round and round on a circular needle or
double point needles, knit every round.

SEED STITCH: On the first row * K 1, P 1, repeat from * to end of row.
On all subsequent rows, K over the P st and P over the K st.

RIBBING: On the first row work in the ribbing pattern given. On all
other rows, K over the K sts and P over the P sts.

TO SLIP A STITCH: Whenever the directions specify a sl st, always insert
the right hand needle in the st to be slipped as if to P, unless
otherwise indicated.

MARKERS: When work specifies the use of a marker, use a small round
paper clip for this purpose. In working, always slip this marker from
one needle to the other.

JOINING YARN: If possible always join a new ball of yarn at the
beginning of a row. When it is necessary to join the yarn while working
across a row, leave an end about 4 inches long; then work from the new
ball of yarn on the next st, also leaving a 4 inch end. After working
for 1 inch more, tie these two ends in a square knot, so that the
tension will be the same as all other sts. When finishing work, run in
these ends on wrong side for 1 inch.

SELECTION OF COLOR: Every woman has her own personal preferences in
colors, based on the colors which are most flattering to her and will
harmonize with the rest of her wardrobe. For this reason we have not
specified any particular color for any model, other than for those
models where a combination of colors has been used. Even in these
models, let your own individuality express itself by choosing other
color combinations if you wish.

                ABBREVIATIONS

  K      knit
  P      purl
  st(s)  stitch(es)
  inc    increase
  dec    decrease
  tog    together
  y o    yarn over
  sl     slip
  sl st  slip stitch
  psso   pass slip stitch over knit stitch
  d p    double point
  ch     chain
  s c    single crochet
  d c    double crochet

*—this symbol indicates that the directions immediately following are to
be repeated a given number of times.

“Work even” means to work without increasing or decreasing, always
keeping pattern as established.

  EVERY EFFORT HAS BEEN MADE TO HAVE THE KNITTING DIRECTIONS CONTAINED
 IN THIS BOOK ACCURATE AND COMPLETE, HOWEVER, WE CANNOT BE RESPONSIBLE
  FOR VARIANCE OF INDIVIDUAL KNITTERS, HUMAN ERRORS, OR TYPOGRAPHICAL
                                MISTAKES

    _Price: 25¢ in continental U. S. A., 35¢ in Canada, 35¢ in other
                               countries_

    COPYRIGHT 1953, EMILE BERNAT & SONS COMPANY • JAMAICA PLAIN 30,
                        MASSACHUSETTS, U. S. A.




                             Style No. 3598


                            Shown on Page 10

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Meadowspun (1 oz. balls)—7
  BERNAT Super Angora (10 gram balls)—4
  1 pair each straight knitting needles Nos. 7 and 10

GAUGE: 6 sts = 1 inch on No. 7 needles

DIRECTIONS: Using No. 10 needles and Angora, cast on 61 sts. Work even
in garter st for 1½ inches. Break off Angora. ** Join Meadowspun and
using No. 7 needles, K 1, * inc 1 st in next st, repeat from * across
row—121 sts. Work even in seed st for 2½ inches, ending with a wrong
side row. Break off Meadowspun. Join Angora and using No. 10 needles, K
1, * K 2 tog, repeat from * across row—61 sts. Work even in garter st
for 1½ inches, ending with a wrong side row. Break off Angora. Repeat
from ** once more. Join Meadowspun and using No. 7 needles, K 1, * inc 1
st in next st, repeat from * across row—121 sts. Work even in seed st
until piece measures 56 inches. Then work border to correspond to first
border.

FINISHING: Block to measure 20 x 66 inches. FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn
10 inches long. Using 20 strands, knot fringe in every 4th st across
short ends.




                             Style No. 3613


                          Shown on Front Cover

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Dainty Fleurette (1 oz. pull skeins)—8
  BERNAT Metallo (1000 yd spools)—1
  1 bone crochet hook No. 3
  1 hairpin hook 3 inch width
  2 60 inch strings of pearls

Using 3 inch hook, make 7 strips of 400 loops each. FINISH STRIPS: On
each strip work as follows: * Using Dainty Fleurette, insert hook
through first 10 loops, join yarn and work 1 s c, * ch 9, 1 s c in next
group of 10 loops, repeat from * to end of strip (40 groups), ch 9, 1 s
c in s c in middle of short end, ch 9, repeat from * around other side
of strip and short end, ending with sl st in first s c. Fasten off.

JOIN STRIPS: String 40 pearls on Metallo. Using 1 strand each of Metallo
and Dainty Fleurette and holding 2 strips side by side, join yarn in s c
of first group of first strip, ch 5, 1 sl st in s c of first group of
2nd strip, working in 1 pearl, * ch 5, 1 sl st in 5th st of ch 9 of
first strip, ch 5, 1 sl st in 5th st of ch 9 of 2nd strip, ch 5, 1 sl st
in s c of next group of first strip, working in 1 pearl, ch 5, 1 sl st
in s c of next group of 2nd strip, ch 5, 1 sl st in 5th st of ch 9 of
first strip, ch 5, 1 sl st in 5th st of ch 9 of 2nd strip, ch 5, 1 sl st
in s c of next group of first strip, ch 5, 1 sl st in s c of next group
of 2nd strip, working in a pearl, repeat from * to end of strip. Join
remaining strips to each other in same manner.

EDGING: String 100 pearls on Metallo. Using 1 strand each of Metallo and
Dainty Fleurette, join yarn in s c of one group, * ch 9, ch 1 working in
a pearl, ch 9, join with sl st to s c of next group, repeat from * along
one long edge, ** ch 9, ch 1 working in a pearl, ch 9, 1 sl st in s c
row of hairpin strip, ch 9, ch 1 working in a pearl, ch 9, 1 sl st in
2nd st of ch 5 of joining, repeat from ** across short end of stole;
then repeat from * around 2 remaining sides of stole. Fasten off.




                             Style No. 3615


                            Shown on Page 11

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Riviera (1 oz. pull skeins)—16 each of Black and White
  BERNAT Super Knitting Worsted (2 oz. skeins)—3 Black
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 10½
  GAUGE: 3 sts = 1 inch

DIRECTIONS: Using 1 strand each of Black and White Riviera, cast on 81
sts. Work in seed st for 72 inches. Bind off loosely. FINISHING: Block
to measure 27 x 72 inches. Cut strands of Knitting Worsted 20 inches
long. Using 8 strands, knot fringe across both ends.




                             Style No. 3614


                            Shown on Page 11

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Riviera (1 oz. pull skeins)—8 each of Wine and White
  BERNAT Super Knitting Worsted (2 oz. skeins)—2 White
  1 pair 14 inch knitting needles No. 10½
  1 bone crochet hook No. 6
  GAUGE: 3 sts = 1 inch

DIRECTIONS: Using 1 strand each of Wine and White Riviera, cast on 171
sts. Work in seed st for 3 rows. Continuing in seed st, dec 1 st each
end of needle every 3rd row 6 times. Then dec 1 st each end of needle
every other row until 55 sts remain. Then dec 1 st each end of needle
EVERY ROW until 3 sts remain. Bind off. FINISHING: Using double yarn,
work 1 row s c on all edges. Block. Cut strands of Knitting Worsted 12
inches long. Using 3 strands, knot fringe in every s c along shaped
edges.




                             Style No. 3547


                            Shown on Page 5

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Laurelspun (1 oz. balls)—6
  BERNAT Tinsel—1 tube Gold
  BERNAT Bob-o-Wool (20 yd cards)—1 each Pink and Light Green; 2 each
          Red and Medium Green
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 6
  1 steel crochet hook No. 2
  GAUGE:
        6 sts = 1 inch
        8 rows = 1 inch
  PATTERN STITCH: Multiple of 5 sts.

Rows 1 through 6: Knit.

Row 7: K 5, * y o, K 2 tog, K 3, repeat from * across row.

Row 8: Knit.

Row 9: K 4, * y o, K 2 tog, K 3, repeat from * ending y o, K 2 tog, K 4.

Row 10: Knit.

Row 11: K 3, * y o, K 2 tog, K 3, repeat from * ending y o, K 2 tog, K
5.

Row 12: Knit.

Repeat these 12 rows for pattern stitch.

DIRECTIONS: Cast on 385 sts. Work in pattern st until 10 patterns have
been completed. Keeping 6 sts at each end in garter st, work remaining
373 sts in stockinette st, following chart for design, until chart is
completed. Then work Rows 7, 8, 9 and 10 of pattern st. Work the next 6
rows in garter st. Bind off. FINISHING: Work 1 row s c on all edges.
Fold ends and finish with tassels. Embroider a lazy daisy st in each
section of flower with Pink and in each section of Medium Green with
Light Green. Fold back and tack. Block.

    [Illustration: _DIRECTIONS ON USE OF CHART_
    Work between A and B, ending as between A and C.]

  Key to Chart
  —MC
  —Green
  —Red
  —Gold




                             Style No. 3595


                            Shown on Page 6

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Super Angora (10 gram balls)—24
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 10
  1 bone crochet hook No. 5
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 2 inches

DIRECTIONS: Cast on 10 sts. P 1 row. Working in stockinette st, at the
beg of each of the next 12 rows cast on 5 sts. Work even in stockinette
st on 70 sts, keeping 2 sts at each edge in garter st, until piece
measures 64 inches from beg. At the beg of each of the next 12 rows bind
off 5 sts. Bind off remaining 10 sts. Work 2 rows s c on all edges.




                             Style No. 3599


                            Shown on Page 7

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Super Angora (10 gram balls)—13
  BERNAT Metallo (1000 yd spools)—2
  1 circular needle No. 10½

Using 1 strand each of Angora and Metallo, cast on 3 sts. Work back and
forth on circular needle as follows: Rows 1, 3 and 5: K, inc 1 st in
each st. Rows 2 and 4: Knit. Break off Metallo. Row 6: Using Angora
only, insert needle in first st as if to K, wrap yarn around needle
twice and draw through this st, take st off left hand needle, * insert
needle in next st as if to K, wrap yarn around needle twice, and draw
through this st, take st off left hand needle, repeat from * to end of
row. Row 7: Join Metallo and using 1 strand each of Metallo and Angora,
* K, drop extra wrap loop off needle to form long st, inc 1 st in next
st, drop extra wrap off needle, repeat from * to end of row. Row 8:
Knit. Row 9: * K 1, inc 1 st in next st, repeat from * to end of row.
Break off Metallo. Row 10: Repeat Row 6. Row 11: Join Metallo and using
1 strand each of Metallo and Angora, * K 2, forming long st in same
manner as before, inc 1 st in next st, repeat from * to end of row. Row
12: Knit. Row 13: * K 3, inc 1 st in next st, repeat from * to end of
row. Break off Metallo. Row 14: Repeat Row 6. Continue in this manner to
inc 18 sts in one row every other row, working a drop st row every 4th
row until there are 7 drop st rows. Then inc 6 sts at even intervals
every other row until there are 13 drop st rows. Using 1 strand each of
Metallo and Angora, work 6 rows, still inc 6 sts every other row. Bind
off.

FINISHING: Sew seam. Steam lightly.

    [Illustration: Style No. 3547
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 4]

    [Illustration: Style No. 3595
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 4]

    [Illustration: Style No. 3599
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 4]

    [Illustration: MAKE IT PLAIN OR MAKE IT STRIPED]




                             Style No. 3618


                            Shown on Page 24

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Riviera (1 oz. pull skeins)—7
  BERNAT Morona (1 oz. balls)—2 for fringe
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 10½
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 2 inches

Using Riviera, cast on 3 sts. Row 1: Knit. Row 2: Inc 1 st in first st,
K 1, inc 1 st in last st. Row 3: K 3, put a marker on needle, K 2. Row
4: Inc 1 st in first st, K to 1 st before marker, inc 1 st in next st, K
1, inc 1 st in next st, K to last st, inc 1 st in last st. Row 5: Knit.
Repeat Rows 4 and 5 until there are 255 sts on needle. Bind off.

FINISHING: Steam lightly. FRINGE: Using Morona, cut strands of yarn 18
inches long. Using 4 strands of yarn, knot fringe in every other st
across two short sides.

NOTE: For a refreshing touch, make this stole in stripes. See stitch
detail as illustrated.




                             Style No. 3602


                            Shown on Page 9

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT MEADOWSPUN (1 oz. balls)—11
  BERNAT Beada (75 yd spools)—1
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 10
  2 strings No. 6 pearls
  2 strings No. 20 sew-on rhinestones
  1 bone crochet hook No. 3

GAUGE: 5 sts = 1 inch

PATTERN STITCH: Multiple of 42 sts plus 21.

Rows 1 and 3: * P 21, K 21, repeat from * ending P 21.

Row 2 and all even rows: * K 21, P 21, repeat from * ending K 21.

Row 5: * P 10, y o, sl 1, P 1, psso, P 9, K 10, y o, sl 1, K 1, psso, K
9, repeat from * ending P 10, y o, sl 1, P 1, psso, P 9. Row 7: * P 8,
sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 1, y o, P 2 reg, P 8, K 8, sl 1, K 1, psso, y o,
K 1, y o, K 2 tog, K 8, repeat from * ending P 8, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o,
P 1, y o, P 2 tog, P 8. Row 9: * P 7, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 3, y o, P
2 tog, P 7, K 7, sl 1, K 1, psso, y o, K 3, y o, K 2, tog, K 7, repeat
from * ending P 7, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 3, y o, P 2 tog, P 7. Row 11:
* P 6, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 5, y o, P 2 tog, P 6, K 6, sl 1, K 1,
psso, y o, K 5, y o, K 2 tog, K 6, repeat from * ending P 6, sl 1, P 1,
psso, y o, P 5, y o, P 2 tog, P 6. Row 13: * P 5, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o,
P 7, y o, P 2 tog, P 5, K 5, sl 1, K 1, psso, y o, K 7, y o, K 2 tog, K
5, repeat from * ending P 5, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 7, y o, P 2 tog, P
5. Row 15: * P 6, y o, P 2 tog, P 5, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 6, K 6, y
o, K 2 tog, K 5, sl 1, K 1, psso, y o, K 6, repeat from * ending P 6, y
o, P 2 tog, P 5, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 6. Row 17: * P 7, y o, P 2 tog,
P 3, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 7, K 7, y o, K 2 tog, K 3, sl 1, K 1, psso,
y o, K 7, repeat from * ending P 7, y o, P 2 tog, P 3, sl 1, P 1, psso,
y o, P 7. Row 19: * P 8, y o, P 2 tog, P 1, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 8, K
8, y o, K 2 tog, K 1, sl 1, K 1, psso, y o, K 8, repeat from * ending P
8, y o, P 2 tog, P 1, sl 1, P 1, psso, y o, P 8. Row 21: * P 9, y o, P 3
tog, y o, P 9, K 9, y o, K 3 tog, y o, K 9, repeat from * ending P 9, y
o, P 3 tog, y o, P 9. Row 23: * P 10, y o, sl 1, P 1, psso, P 9, K 10, y
o, sl 1, K 1, psso, K 9, repeat from * ending P 10, y o, sl 1, P 1,
psso, P 9.

                                           _(Continuation from page 18)_

Rows 25, 27 and 29: Repeat Row 1.

Repeat Rows 1 through 29 for pattern stitch.

STOLE: Cast on 105 sts. Work in pattern st until 13 patterns have been
completed. Bind off.

FINISHING: Work 2 rows s c along long edges and 3 rows s c along short
ends. FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn 20 inches long. Using 4 strands knot
fringe across both ends. Trim with Beada, pearls and rhinestones as
shown in photograph.

    [Illustration: Style No. 3602
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 8]

    [Illustration: Style No. 3598
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 3]

    [Illustration: Style No.
    3615 left
    3614 right
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 3]

    [Illustration: Style No. 3611
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 13]




                             Style No. 3611


                            Shown on Page 12

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Corette (1 oz. pull skeins)—9
  1 crochet hook No. 3/D
  3 sixty-inch strands of pearls

DIRECTIONS: Ch 4, join with a sl st to form a ring, ch 1. Work 9 s c in
ring, joining last s c to first s c with a sl st. Work as follows: Round
1: * Ch 8, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from * to end of round.
Round 2: Ch 8, 1 s c in first ch 8 space, * ch 8, 1 s c in next s c, ch
8, 1 s c in next ch 8 space, repeat from * to end of round. Round 3: *
Ch 4, 2 s c in next ch 8 space, repeat from * ending ch 4, 2 s c in
first ch 4 space. Round 4: * 1 s c in next s c, 4 s c in next ch 4
space, repeat from * to end of round, joining last s c to first s c with
a sl st. Round 5: Ch 1, 1 s c in each s c of previous round. Round 6: *
Ch 8, skip 2 s c, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from * to end of round.
Rounds 7 and 8: Ch 8, 1 s c in first ch 8 space, * ch 8, 1 s c in next
ch 8 space, repeat from * to end of round. Round 9: Repeat Round 2.
Rounds 10, 11 and 12: Repeat Round 7. Round 13: Repeat Round 3. Round
14: Repeat Round 4. Round 15: Repeat Round 5. Round 16: * Ch 8, skip 3
sc, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from * to end of round. Rounds 17, 18, 19
and 20: Repeat Round 7. Round 21: Repeat Round 2. Rounds 22, 23, 24 and
25: Repeat Round 7. Round 26: Repeat Round 3. Round 27: Repeat Round 4.
Round 28: Repeat Round 5. Round 29: * Ch 8, skip 4 s c, 1 s c in next s
c, repeat from * to end of round. Rounds 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35:
Repeat Round 7. Round 36: Repeat Round 2. Rounds 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42
and 43: Repeat Round 7. Round 44: Repeat Round 3. Round 45: Repeat Round
4. Round 46: Repeat Round 5. Round 47: Repeat Round 29. Fasten off.

BORDER: String pearls onto yarn and join yarn in work where it was
fastened off. Work as follows: Round 1: * Ch 8, 1 s c in next ch 8
space, draw a pearl close to loop on hook and work 1 more s c in same ch
8 space, repeat from * to end of round. Round 2: * Ch 4, 2 s c in next
ch 8 space, repeat from * ending ch 4, 2 s c in first ch 4 space. Round
3: * 1 s c in next s c, 5 s c in next ch 4 space, repeat from * to end
of round, joining last s c to first s c with a sl st. Round 4: Ch 1, 1 s
c in each s c of previous round. Round 5: * Ch 10, skip 5 s c, 1 s c in
next s c, repeat from * to end of round. Rounds 6 and 7: * Ch 10, 1 s c
in next ch 10 space, draw a pearl close to loop on hook and work 1 more
s c in same ch 10 space, repeat from * to end of round. Round 8: * Ch 5,
draw a pearl close to loop on hook, ch 1 and pull up tightly to lock
pearl in place, ch 5, 1 s c in next ch 10 space, draw a pearl close to
loop on hook and work 1 more s c in same ch 10 space, repeat from * to
end of round. Fasten off.




                             Style No. 3600


                           Shown at Top Left

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Super Angora (10 gram balls)—2
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 8
  1 bone crochet hook No. 5
  GAUGE: 9 sts = 2 inches
        6 rows = 1 inch

COLLAR: Cast on 60 sts. Work even in stockinette st for 1½ inches. On
the next row dec 1 st each end of needle and repeat this dec EVERY ROW
twice more. Bind off 54 sts.

CUFFS: Make 2. Cast on 30 sts. Work even in stockinette st until piece
measures 2 inches. Bind off.

FINISHING: Seam cuffs. Work 1 row s c on short ends and bound off edge
of collar and on cuffs. Steam lightly.




                             Style No. 3597


                          Shown at Bottom Left

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Nylo Germantown Worsted (2 oz. skeins)—5
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 15
  1 crochet hook No. 8/H.
  GAUGE: 5 sts = 2 inches

DIRECTIONS: Cast on 3 sts. Row 1: K 1 y o, K 1, y o, K 1. Row 2: K 2, P
1, put a marker on needle, K 2. Row 3: Inc 1 st in first st, K to
marker, y o, sl marker to right hand needle, K 1, y o, K to last st, inc
1 st in last st. Row 4: K to 1 st before marker, P 1, K to end of row.
Repeat Rows 3 and 4 until there are 181 sts on needle. Bind off.

FINISHING: Block. With right side facing you, work 1 row s c on long
side of triangle and 2 rows s c on other two sides.

FRINGE: Cut strands 13 inches long. Knot fringe along the two short
sides as follows: Using 2 strands of yarn, knot fringe in each of first
5 sts, * using 1 strand of yarn knot fringe in next st, using 2 strands
of yarn, knot fringe in each of next 4 sts, repeat from * on two short
sides. Re-block.




                             Style No. 3601


                           Shown at Top Right

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Super Angora (10 gram balls)—3
  BERNAT Nylon (1 oz. balls)—1
  1 bone crochet hook No. 8
  GAUGE:
        7 s c = 2 inches
        3 rows = 1 inch

NOTES

1. When working in s c, with right side facing you, work in back loop
ONLY; with wrong side facing you, work in front loop ONLY.

2. To increase, work 2 s c in 1 stitch.

3. To decrease, draw up a loop in each of the next 2 sts of previous
row, y o and draw through all three loops—1 st decreased.

DIRECTIONS: Using 1 strand each of Angora and Nylon, ch 3, work 1 s c in
2nd st from hook, 1 s c in last st, ch 1, turn—3 sts (always count beg
ch as first st). Row 2: Inc 1 st in first st, 1 s c in each st to end of
row, ch 1, turn. Row 3: Work 1 s c in each st to last st, inc 1 st in
last st, ch 1, turn. Repeat Rows 2 and 3 until there are 19 sts. Then
work even in s c until piece measures 8 inches, ch 2, turn.

NECKBAND: Row 1: * Skip 2 s c, 1 d c in next st, repeat from * to end of
row, ch 2, turn—7 sts. Row 2: Work 1 d c in each st to end of row, ch 2,
turn.

SLIT: Row 1: Work 1 d c in each of 2 sts, 1 d c in centre st, ch 2,
turn—4 sts. Work 2 rows even in d c. Break off yarn. Join yarn in centre
st of first row of neckband, ch 2, work 1 d c in each st to end of row,
ch 2, turn. Work 2 rows even in d c. Row 4: Work 1 d c in each of 2 sts,
y o, draw up a loop in next st, y o and draw up a loop in first st of
other side, * y o and draw through all loops on hook, 1 d c in each st
to end of row, ch 2, turn. Work even in d c until neckband measures 13
inches, ch 1, turn.

SECOND END: Row 1: Work 3 s c in each s c of previous row—19 sts. Work
back and forth in s c on 19 sts for same number of rows as other end.
Then at one end dec 1 st each row until 3 sts remain. Fasten off. Work 1
row s c around ends. Steam lightly.

    [Illustration: STYLE NO. 3600
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 14]

    [Illustration: STYLE NO. 3601
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 14]

    [Illustration: STYLE NO. 3597
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 14]




                             Style No. 3517


    [Illustration: Style No.
    3520 left
    3517 right]

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Laurelspun (1 oz. balls)—5
  1 hairpin hook 5 inch width
  1 hairpin hook 1½ inch width
  1 steel crochet hook No. 2
  1 bone crochet hook No. 9
  1 yd 39 inch taffeta
  Sequins

Using 5 inch hook, make 4 strips of 920 loops each. END FRINGE: Using 1½
inch hook, make 2 strips of 110 loops each, working s c as close to one
prong of hook as possible.

TO JOIN STRIPS: Place 2 strips side by side. With bone crochet hook,
pick up first 2 loops of right hand strip on side nearest other strip:
pick up first 2 loops of second strip on side nearest other strip and
pull these 2 loops through 2 loops already on hook: * pick up next 2
loops of first strip and pull through 2 loops on hook: pick up next 2
loops of second strip and pull through 2 loops on hook: repeat from *
until 2 strips are joined. Sew last 2 loops securely with matching
thread. Join all strips in same manner.

FINISHING: Line stole with taffeta. Sew on sequins as shown in
photograph. Sew end fringe in place, catching between taffeta and stole.




                             Style No. 3526


    [Illustration: Style No. 3526]

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Sparkle-Laine (1 oz. balls)—10
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 10
  1 steel crochet hook No. 4
  20 yds of ¼ inch velvet ribbon
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch
  PATTERN STITCH: Multiple of 8 sts plus 7.

Row 1: Knit.

Row 2: K 3, * y o, K 2 tog, K 6, repeat from * ending y o, K 2 tog, K 2.
Repeat these 2 rows for pattern stitch.

Cast on 79 sts. Work even in pattern st until piece measures 72 inches,
ending with Row 1. Bind off.

FINISHING: Work 1 row s c on long sides. Cut velvet ribbon in 2 yd
pieces. Weave ribbon through each row of y o’s. Sew at each end of
stole. FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn 17 inches long. Using 4 strands, knot
fringe in every other st across both ends.




                             Style No. 3520


  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Laurelspun (1 oz. balls)—9 Main Color (M C)
  BERNAT Beada (75 yd tubes)—3 Gold (C C)
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 5
  GAUGE:
        7 sts = 1 inch
        8 rows = 1 inch
  PATTERN STITCH: Multiple of 18 sts.

Row 1: Knit.

Row 2: Purl.

Row 3: K 2 tog 3 times, * y o, K 1, repeat from * 5 times more. K 2 tog
6 times, repeat from * across row, ending K 2 tog 3 times instead of 6
times.

Row 4: Knit.

Repeat these 4 rows for pattern stitch.

Using M C, cast on 126 sts. * Work in pattern st for 24 rows. Then work
4 rows in C C. Repeat from * until piece measures 72 inches, ending with
24 rows of M C. Using M C, K 1 row, P 1 row. Bind off. Block lightly.
FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn 17 inches long. Using 4 strands, knot fringe
in every other st across both ends.




                             Style No. 3603


                            Shown on Page 19

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Corette (1 oz. pull skeins)—10
  1 crochet hook No. 3/D
  2 strings sew-on rhinestones
  Bead motifs for trim

DIRECTIONS: Ch 304, work 1 s c in 2nd ch from hook, 1 s c in each st to
end of ch, ch 1, turn. Row 1: 1 s c in each of first 6 s c, * ch 3, skip
2 s c, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from * to last 5 s c, 1 s c in each of
last 5 s c, ch 1, turn. Row 2: 1 sl st in each of first 2 s c, 1 s c in
each of next 4 s c, 2 s c in first ch 3 space, * ch 6, 1 s c in next ch
3 space, repeat from * to last ch 3 space, ch 6, 2 s c in last ch 3
space, 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, ch 1, turn. Row 3: 1 sl st in each
of first 2 s c, 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, 2 s c in first ch 6 space,
* ch 3, 1 s c in next ch 6 space, repeat from * to last ch 6 space, ch
3, 2 s c in last ch 6 space, 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, ch 1, turn.
Row 4: 1 s c in each of first 6 sc, ch 1, turn, 1 s c in each of 6 s c,
3 s c along side of previous row toward point, fasten off. Starting at
opposite edge, join yarn and work 1 s c in each of first 6 s c, ch 1,
turn, 1 s c in each of 6 s c, 3 s c along side of previous row toward
point, ch 1, turn, 1 sl st in each of first 3 s c, 1 s c in each of the
next 6 s c, ch 3, 1 s c in next s c, * ch 6, 1 s c in next s c, repeat
from * to last ch 3 space, ch 3, 1 s c in each of next 6 s c, ch 1,
turn. Row 5: 1 sl st in each of first 2 s c, 1 s c in each of next 4 s
c, 2 s c in first ch 3 space, * ch 3, 1 s c in next ch 6 space, repeat
from * to last ch 3 space, 2 s c in ch 3 space, 1 s c in each of next 4
s c, ch 1, turn. Row 6: 1 sl st in each of first 2 s c, 1 s c in each of
next 4 s c, * 2 s c in next ch 3 space, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from *
to last 6 s c, 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, ch 1, turn. Row 7: 1 s c in
each s c across row, ch 1, turn. Row 8: 1 sl st in first s c, 1 s c in
each of next 6 s c, * ch 6, skip 2 s c, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from *
to last 7 sts, 1 s c in each of the next 6 s c, ch 1, turn. Rows 9
through 11: Repeat Rows 3 through 5. Row 12: Work 1 sl st in each of
first 2 s c, 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, 2 s c in first ch 3 space, *
ch 6, 1 s c in next s c, repeat from * to last ch 3 space, ch 6, 2 s c
in last ch 3 space, 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, ch 1, turn. Rows 13
through 18: Repeat Rows 3 through 8. Rows 19 through 22: Repeat Rows 3
through 6. Row 23: Work 1 d c in each s c across row, ch 1, turn. Rows
24 and 25: Repeat Rows 7 and 8: Rows 26 through 31: Repeat Rows 3
through 8. Rows 32, 33 and 34: Repeat Rows 3, 4 and 5: Row 35: Repeat
Row 12. Rows 36 through 47: Repeat Rows 3 through 8 twice. Repeat Rows 9
through 47 twice more. Then repeat Rows 9 through 16 until all sts are
worked in s c. Work in s c, dec 2 sts at each end of EVERY ROW, until
all sts have been worked.

FINISHING: With right side facing you, work 2 rows s c on two short
sides of stole.

FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn 11 inches long. Using 4 strands tog, knot
fringe in every s c along short sides. If desired, trim with rhinestones
and bead motifs as shown in photograph.

    [Illustration: Style No. 3603
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 18]




                             Style No. 3527


                        Shown at Left on Page 21

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Nylo Germantown (2 oz. skeins)—4 Main Color (M C); 3
          Contrasting Color (C C)
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 10½
  GAUGE: 3 sts = 1 inch
  PATTERN STITCH: Multiple of 2 sts.

Row 1: Using C C, * K 1, bring yarn to front of work, sl 1, throw yarn
to back of work, repeat from * ending K 2.

Row 2: Using C C, purl.

Row 3: Using M C, K 2, * bring yarn to front of work and sl 1, throw
yarn to back of work, K 1, repeat from * to end of row.

Row 4: Using M C, purl.

Repeat these 4 rows for pattern stitch.

Using M C, cast on 60 sts. P 1 row. Then work in pattern st for 72
inches, ending with Row 4. Bind off. Block lightly.

FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn 10 inches long. Using 2 strands, knot fringe
in each st across both ends.




                             Style No. 3519


                       Shown at Right on Page 21

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Nylo Germantown (2 oz. skeins)—4 Dark Color (M C); 3 Light
          Color (C C)
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 6
  GAUGE:
        10 sts = 3 inches
        16 rows = 3 inches
  PATTERN STITCH: Multiple of 2 sts.

Row 1: Using C C, * P 1, K in st of row below, repeat from * across row.

Row 2: Using C C, knit.

Row 3: Using M C, * K in st of row below, P 1, repeat from * across row.

Row 4: Using M C, knit.

Repeat these 4 rows for pattern stitch.

Using M C, cast on 60 sts. K 1 row. Then work in pattern st until piece
measures 72 inches, ending with Row 4. Bind off.

FRINGE: Cut strands of yarn 22 inches long. Using 6 strands of yarn,
knot fringe in every other st across both ends.




                             Style No. 3594


                            Shown on Page 22

  MATERIALS
  BERNAT Riviera (1 oz. pull skeins)—16
  1 pair straight knitting needles No. 6
  1 bone crochet hook No. 2
  1¼ yds lining if desired
  GAUGE:
        5 sts = 1 inch
        7 rows = 1 inch

NOTE: Work entire piece in stockinette st. Use purl side for right side.

LEFT FRONT: Cast on 60 sts. Work in stockinette st until piece measures
16 inches, ending with a K row. SHAPE CAPE: Row 1: Inc 1 st in first st,
P to end of row. Row 2: K inc 1 st in last st. Repeat Rows 1 and 2 until
there are 75 sts on needle. Then inc 1 st at beg of EVERY P row 9 times
and every other P row 12 times, ending with a P row—96 sts. K the next
row. SHAPE SHOULDER: At the beg of each of the next 6 P rows bind off 10
sts; at the beg of each of the next 4 P rows bind off 9 sts.

RIGHT FRONT: Work to correspond to left front, reversing all shaping.

LEFT BACK: Cast on 3 sts. Row 1: Knit. Rows 2 and 4: Purl. Row 3: Cast
on 4 sts (lower edge), K to end of row. Row 5: Cast on 4 sts, K to last
st, inc 1 st in last st (centre back edge)—12 sts. Repeat from Row 2
five times more, ending with Row 4—52 sts. Continuing to inc 1 st at
centre back edge every 4th row, at lower edge inc 1 st EVERY ROW 8
times—62 sts. On the next row inc 1 st each end of needle and repeat
this inc every 4th row 21 times more—106 sts. SHAPE NECK AND SHOULDER:
At centre back edge dec 1 st every other row 10 times and at lower edge
bind off 10 sts 6 times and 9 sts 4 times.

RIGHT BACK: Work to correspond to left back, reversing all shaping.

FINISHING: Sew seams. Work 2 rows s c around entire piece. Block. Line,
if desired.

    [Illustration: Style No.
    3527 left
    3519 right
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 20]

    [Illustration: Style No. 3594
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 20]

    [Illustration: _just touch it..._!]

                          Bernat _meadowspun_

                 “the yarn with the cashmere-like feel”

  • Soft as a sunset, and just as beautiful ... that’s Meadowspun ...
          your ideal fingering yarn.
  • 50% virgin wool for warmth and comfort
    50% Nylon for strength and easy washability.
  • Shrink and stretch controlled ... dries quickly, and holds its
          shape.
  • 62 glorious washable colors ... the most beautiful colors known to
          yarn.

            EMILE BERNAT & SONS CO., JAMAICA PLAIN 30, MASS.

                                   50
                            THE IDEAL BLEND
                                   50

                                 Bernat
                              _Meadowspun_
                        50% VIRGIN WOOL WORSTED
                       50% DUPONT CRIMP SET NYLON
                             _Master Dyed_

    [Illustration: Style No. 3618
    DIRECTIONS ON PAGE 8]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of Project Gutenberg's Bernat Handicrafter, Book 161: Stoles, by Anonymous

